1) Which of the following are irrational numbers?  
1 point

□ 2.99999999

□ \((\sqrt{8} + \sqrt{2})(\sqrt{12} - \sqrt{3})\)

□ \(\frac{\sqrt{6}}{\sqrt{8}}\)

□ \((\sqrt{8} - \sqrt{2})(\sqrt{18} + \sqrt{2})\)

---

2) Suppose \(f : D \longrightarrow \mathbb{R}\) is a function defined by \(f(x) = \frac{\sqrt{x^2 - 25}}{x + 5}\), where \(D \subset \mathbb{R}\). Let \(A\) be the set of integers which are not in the domain of \(f\), then find the cardinality of the set \(A\).  
1 point

---

3) Consider the set \(S = \{a \mid a \in \mathbb{N}, \ a \leq 21\}\). Let \(R_1\) and \(R_2\) be relations from \(S\) to \(S\) defined as \(R_1 = \{(x, y) \mid x, y \in S, \ y = 3x\}\) and \(R_2 = \{(x, y) \mid x, y \in S, \ y = x^2\}\). Find the cardinality of the set \(R_1 \setminus (R_1 \cap R_2)\).  
1 point

---

4) In a Zoo, there are 6 Bengal white tigers and 7 Bengal royal tigers. Out of these tigers, 5 are males and 10 are either Bengal royal tigers or males. Find the number of female Bengal white tigers in the Zoo.  
1 point

---

5) A survey was conducted on pollution of 525 ponds across some cities. It was found that 230 ponds are polluted by fertilisers \((F)\), 245 ponds are polluted by pesticides \((P)\) and 257 ponds are polluted by pharmaceutical products \((Ph)\). 100 ponds are polluted by fertilisers and pesticides, 82 ponds are polluted by fertilisers and pharmaceutical products, 77 ponds are polluted by pesticides and pharmaceutical products.  
1 point
<hr><hr>
Figure M1T6GA-1

Define a relation on the set of 525 ponds such that two ponds are related if both are polluted by fertilisers and pharmaceutical products. Which of the following is/are true?

□ Relation is reflexive.

□ Relation is transitive.

□ Relation is symmetric.

□ This is an equivalence relation.

6) Mahesh has four sons (Shubh, Rabi, Mahendra, and Rajat). Shubh has two sons (Yashubh and Navrtna). Rabi has two sons named Rathi and Rakesh. This family tree is shown in the figure below. Let us define two relations, R and S, on the set M, which is the collection of all family members, as follows,

R := {(A, B) | A and B are cousins, i.e. their parents are siblings}.

S := {(A, B) | A is son of B}.

Mahesh  
├── Shubh  
│   ├── Yashubh  
│   └── Navrtna  
├── Rabi  
│   ├── Rathi  
│   └── Rakesh  
├── Mahendra  
└── Rajat

Let f := {(A, B) | A is son of B} ⊂ P × Q, where P and Q are subsets of M.

Which of the following options are correct?

□ f : P → Q is a function, where P = {Yashubh, Navrtna, Rathi, Rakesh, Mahesh} and Q = { Shubh, Rabi, Mahendra, Rajat}.

□ If f : P → Q is a function, where P = { Yashubh, Navrtna, Rathi, Rakesh} and Q = {Shubh, Rabi, Mahendra, Rajat}, then f is one-one.

□ If f : P → Q is a function, where P = {Yashubh, Navrtna, Rathi, Rakesh} and Q = { Shubh, Rabi}, then f is onto.
<hr><hr>
If \( f : P \rightarrow Q \) is a function, where \( P = \{ Yashubh, Rathi \} \) and \( Q = \{ Shubh, Rabi \} \), then \( f \) is bijective.

7) Mahesh has four sons (Shubh, Rabi, Mahendra, and Rajat). Shubh has two sons (Yashubh and Navrtna). Rabi has two sons named Rathi and Rakesh. This family tree is shown in the figure below. Let us define two relations, \( R \) and \( S \), on the set \( M \), which is the collection of all family members, as follows,

1 point

\( R := \{ (A, B) \mid A \text{ and } B \text{ are cousins, i.e. their parents are siblings} \}. \)

\( S := \{ (A, B) \mid A \text{ is son of } B \}. \)

\[
\begin{array}{cccccc}
& & & \text{Mahesh} & & \\
& & / & | & \backslash & \\
& \text{Shubh} & \text{Rabi} & \text{Mahendra} & \text{Rajat} & \\
/ & \backslash & / & \backslash & & \\
\text{Yashubh} & \text{Navrtna} & \text{Rathi} & \text{Rakesh} & &
\end{array}
\]

Then which of the following are true?

□ \( R \) is an equivalence relation.

□ (Rathi, Navrtna) ∈ \( R \)

□ \( S \) is an equivalence relation.

□ (Mahesh, Rajat) ∈ \( S \).

□ (Yashubh, Rathi) ∈ \( R \) and (Rathi, Yashubh) ∈ \( R \).

□ \( S \) is symmetric relation.

8) Mahesh has four sons (Shubh, Rabi, Mahendra, and Rajat). Shubh has two sons (Yashubh and Navrtna). Rabi has two sons named Rathi and Rakesh. This family tree is shown in the figure below. Let us define two relations, \( R \) and \( S \), on the set \( M \), which is the collection of all family members, as follows,

\( R := \{ (A, B) \mid A \text{ and } B \text{ are cousins, i.e. their parents are siblings} \}. \)

\( S := \{ (A, B) \mid A \text{ is son of } B \}. \)

\[
\begin{array}{cccccc}
& & & \text{Mahesh} & & \\
& & / & | & \backslash & \\
& \text{Shubh} & \text{Rabi} & \text{Mahendra} & \text{Rajat} & \\
/ & \backslash & / & \backslash & & \\
\text{Yashubh} & \text{Navrtna} & \text{Rathi} & \text{Rakesh} & &
\end{array}
\]
<hr><hr>
If $m$ is the cardinality of the set $R$ and $n$ is the cardinality of the set $S$, then find the value of $m + n$.

---

**1 point**

9) Consider the functions $f : \mathbb{N} \setminus \{0\} \to \mathbb{N} \setminus \{0\}$ and $g : \mathbb{N} \setminus \{0\} \to \mathbb{N} \setminus \{0\}$ given by,

$$
f(x) = x + 1
$$

and

$$
g(x) = \begin{cases} 
f(x) - 1 & \text{if } x > 1, \\
1 & \text{if } x = 1 
\end{cases}
$$

Which of the following option(s) is(are) true?

1 point

- [ ] $f$ is one to one but not onto.
- [ ] $f$ is neither one to one nor onto.
- [ ] $g$ is onto but not one to one.
- [ ] $g$ is a bijective function.

10) Consider the set $A = \{3k \mid k \in \mathbb{N}\}$. Define a function $f : \mathbb{N} \to A$, such that $f(n) = 6n$. Which of the following option(s) is(are) true?

1 point

- [ ] $f$ is one to one but not onto.
- [ ] $f$ is neither one to one nor onto.
- [ ] $f$ is onto but not one to one
- [ ] $f$ is a bijective function.
