**Note:** This assignment will be evaluated after the deadline passes. You will get your score 48 hrs after the deadline. Until then the score will be shown as Zero.

There are some questions which have functions with discrete valued domains (such as day, month, year etc). For simplicity, we treat them as continuous functions.

For NAT type question, enter only one right answer, even if you get multiple answers for that particular question.

**Notations:**

ℝ = Set of **real numbers**
ℚ = Set of **rational numbers**
ℤ = Set of **integers**
ℕ = Set of **natural numbers**

The set of natural numbers includes 0.

1) A bird is flying along the straight line 2y - 6x = 41. In the same plane, an aeroplane starts to fly in a straight line and passes through the point (4, 12). Consider the point where aeroplane starts to fly as origin. If the bird and plane collides then enter the answer as 1 and if not then 0. Note: Bird and aeroplane can be considered to be of negligible size.

---

**1 point**

2) A rock is thrown in a pond, and creates circular ripples whose radius increases at a rate of 0.2 meter per second. What will be the value of \(\frac{A}{\pi}\), where A is the area (in square meter) of the circle after 5 seconds?
*Hint* : The area of a circle = \(\pi r^2\), where r is the radius of the circle.

---

**1 point**

3) Answer question based on the information mentioned below.

A mobile company wants to launch its new model in collaboration with a network provider named **Astron** to attract more customers.
The following are two options the mobile company gives to buy the mobile.

Option 1 - Mobile and 1-year Astron Network costs 34000 rupees (Network offers unlimited calls for one year)
<hr><hr>
Option 2 - Only Mobile costs 22000 rupees

Now Lalith wants to buy this new model mobile. Lalith needs only 200 minutes per month.
There are two network providers in the country.

| Network Provider | Fixed Charge (Per month) | Per minute Charge |
| ---------------- | ------------------------ | ----------------- |
| Astron           | 100                      | 2                 |
| Proton           | 200                      | 0.5               |

How much will he save per year if he chooses the best option to buy the mobile compared to the collaborated offer given by the company?

---

1 point

4) The total expenses of mess consists of fixed cost and the variable cost, Variable cost is proportional to the number of inmates of the mess, The total expenses are 16000 rupees when 12 members in the mess,and 20000 rupees when 20 members in the mess, find the Fixed cost of the mess.

---

1 point

5) Find the y - coordinate of the point of intersection of straight lines represented by (1) and (2), given the following equations:

1 point

ax + by + c = E ---- (1)

bx + cy + d² = F ---- (2)

Given that

E = F = 0

Arithmetic mean of a and b is c.

Geometric mean of a and b is d.

Choose the correct option.

Note:

Arithmetic mean of m and n is \(\frac{m+n}{2}\)
<hr><hr>
Geometric mean of \( m \) and \( n \) is \(\sqrt{mn}\)

- \(\left(\frac{2a^2b-ab-b^2}{2b^2-a^2-ab}\right)\)
- \(\left(\frac{a^2}{a-b}-1\right)\)
- \(\left(\frac{2b^2b-ab-b^2}{2b^2-b^2-ab}\right)\)
- \(\left(\frac{b^2}{a-b}-1\right)\)

6) A line perpendicular to the line segment joining the points \( A (1, 0) \) and \( B (2, 3) \), divides it at \( C \) in the ratio of 1 : 3. Then the equation of the line is
**1 point**

- \( 2x + 6y - 9 = 0 \)
- \( 2x + 6y - 7 = 0 \)
- \( 2x - 6y - 9 = 0 \)
- \( 2x - 6y + 7 = 0 \)

7) Consider a triangle \( \triangle ABC \), whose co-ordinates are \( A(-3, 3) \), \( B(1, 7) \) and \( C(2, -2) \). Let the point \( M \) divides the line \( AB \) in 1:3, the point \( N \) divides the line \( AC \) in 2:3 and the point \( O \) is the mid-point of \( BC \). Find out the area of triangle \( \triangle MNO \) (in sq. unit).

**1 point**

8) Consider two triangles \( ABC \) and \( PAB \) with coordinates \( A(4, 3) \), \( B(2, 2) \), \( C(8, 3) \) and \( P(t, t^2) \). The area of triangle \( ABC \) is 4 times the area of the triangle \( PAB \).
**1 point**

Choose all the possible options for \( P \).

- (0, 0)
- (2, 4)
- (-2, 4)
- (-1, 1)
- (1, 1)
<hr><hr>
9) Suppose that \( P_1 \) and \( P_2 \) are points in a Cartesian coordinate system, with \( P_1 \) located at \( (3, -2) \) and \( P_2 \) located at \( (-1, 5) \). Also, let \( L_1 \) and \( L_2 \) be lines passing through \( P_1 \) and \( P_2 \) respectively.

1 point

If the \( x \)-intercept of the line \( L_1 \) is 1 and \( y \)-intercept of the line \( L_2 \) is -1 and If \( \theta \) is the angle between \( L_1 \) and \( L_2 \), then \( \tan \theta \) is equal to

- ○ \(-\frac{5}{7}\)
- ○ \(\frac{5}{7}\)
- ○ \(\frac{5}{3}\)
- ○ \(\frac{4}{7}\)

10) Consider the points \( A(0, 3), B(x, y), C(4, 3), D(1, 0) \) and \( E(3, 1) \) in the coordinate system. Suppose the point \( B \) divides internally the line segment \( AC \) in the ratio \( k : 1 \). If the area of triangle \( DEB \) is 2, then find the positive value of \( k \).

1 point

11) A function \( f(x) \) which is the best fit for the data given in Table 1 recorded by a student is \( f(x) = -(x - 1)^2 (x - 3)(x - 5)(x - 7) + c \) What will be the value of \( c \), so that SSE (Sum Squared Error) will be minimum?

\[
\begin{array}{|c|c|}
\hline
x & y \\
\hline
1 & 4 \\
2 & 18 \\
3 & 3 \\
4 & -24 \\
5 & 3 \\
\hline
\end{array}
\]

1 point

12) A bird is flying along the straight line \( 2y - 6x = 6 \). After some time an aeroplane also follows the straight line path with a slope of 2 and passes through the point (4, 8). Let \( (\alpha, \beta) \) be the point where the bird and airplane can collide. Then find the value of \( \alpha + \beta \).

1 point

13) Consider a triangle \( \Delta ABC \), whose co-ordinates are \( A(-3, 3), B(1, 7) \) and \( C(2, -2) \). Let point \( M \) divides the line \( AB \) in \( 1 : 3 \), point \( N \) divides the line \( AC \) in \( 2 : 3 \) and the point \( O \) is the mid-point of \( BC \). Find out the area of triangle \(\Delta MNO \).

1 point
<hr><hr>
\(\triangle MNO\) (in sq. unit).

---

*1 point*
